
    One of my friends has a little dog named Roxanne. When she is given a bone, she worries over it. She runs here and there, burying it, digging it up, and burying it again. The habit is even more curious
     since she’s the only animal in the house. My friend laughs at the metaphor Roxanne provides, and it applies to us all. Human beings imagine some sort of threatening “bone getter” out there instead of
     realizing that there are none but what we create. We are in charge of our hologram, and what is perceived as bad in our lives is just the past repeating itself over and over again in different forms
     and disguises and to different degrees. It’s as if you are constantly broadcasting radio signals, some conscious, many subconscious, and only these things at these frequencies come back to you. To
     broadcast a desire for wealth when you have a poor relationship with money will not bring wealth. First, you must resolve your relationship with money. It’s not enough to broadcast a new job if you
     can’t get out of the feeling of despondency at your current one. It’s not enough to broadcast that you want unconditional love from your spouse if you don’t know what that love is and thus can’t give it.
      You receive that which vibrates to your frequency. As Albert Einstein once said, “We can’t solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used to create them.” One of the first conditions for
       dynamic creating is to take full responsibility for everything you have created up to now. Your child’s mind doesn’t like this idea. To take full responsibility feels like it would invalidate what
       we’ve done so far. Haven’t we made the effort? Haven’t we tried everything? Haven’t we sacrificed for love? Haven’t we been in pain? Aren’t we the helpless victims of malicious happenstance? Finding
       out that life should be easy, loving, and free from fear and pain is just too much to bear; we kick ourselves over all the energy we’ve wasted being miserable— all those wasted years! Someone is
       telling us that we have been wrong all this time, and this infuriates us because we have tried so hard!


        If this sounds melodramatic, it is. The ecm always drums up reasons not to do things, especially when it stands at the precipice of real change. The reason for all the drama, whether or not it is
        acknowledged by the individual as drama, is this bottom line: we’re afraid to let go of the past and create something new. The ego and its limitations are all we know. To us, the unknown feels like
        immersing ourselves in Tales from the Darkside. Childhood issues are often wrapped around the subject of creating, which chokes the glee out of it. Creating should be fun, and money should be fluid
        with more coming in than going out. But this is not the life most people have, and we will explore why. Because many people find creating such a challenge, the whole process confuses us, especially
        because we find a resonant truth with it at the same time. But creating doesn’t work for us every time because we hesitate to go deeper into ourselves. We are afraid we will be bitten by what’s down
         in the deep darkness of our psyches if we look at it. I’m here to tell you, however, that it’s going to bite you if you don’t look at it, so you might as well. You are attracting things with your
         energy. Your beliefs, unconscious vows, genetic and cultural influences, and so on all have a frequency, and for the most part, you don’t know you carry them. Like the viruses and bacteria you have
         in your system right now that are not bothering you, given the right time and conditions, they’ll appear. You can’t hide from these frequencies. They are a part of life. Therapy, counselors, and
         different forms of healing assist us in becoming aware of these frequencies so that they can be dispatched and a different outcome created. Recently I saw a client who is going through bankruptcy.
         She was getting a horrible runaround from the system. She looked shell-shocked when she walked in the door. I told her I wanted to find out why these things had to happen since they were obviously
         in her energy. “What good will that do?” she asked. “I still have to go through the bankruptcy anyway.” I told her I was also going to find out why she felt that way. I could see that her mind was
         made up and locked around the experience she was creating:

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 84-85).  . Kindle Edition.



        it was just another horrible experience in a lifetime of horrible experiences, and she was going to have to find a way to survive just as she always did. “What’s the point of finding anything? I’m
        just going to have to go through this again the next time it happens. What’s the point of making me feel better about it?” I explained that the point was not making her feel better about it, but
        finding once and for all the reasons she had to continually put herself through experiences like this: why she was always in the survival mode; why, when she looked ahead, she only saw more experiences
         like this instead of an easier and more abundant life. In other words, you can put a bandage on your hand each time you’re cut, or you can find out why you continue to be cut and end the cycling of
          this energy by healing it once and for all. This is the nature of energetic healing. Change the energy that is everything and everything changes. As we become less fearful and more loving, trust in
          ourselves deepens. It becomes easier to create the life we want when we know what we need to stay balanced. In the next chapters, we’ll go through the facts about creating and laying out the natural
           laws from which you must work. I’ll give you a creation formula that works every time and an exercise that will support you in your manifesting process. We’ll detail when and why manifesting
           doesn’t work, and what it takes to make it successful. Nevertheless, these lessons ride on the profound information of this entire book, so if you have jumped ahead to this chapter, please take
           the time to read the book from the beginning. I urge you to study Consciousness and creating the life you want as part of the whole, which is discussed in other chapters of this book. If you are
           trying to use the tools and devices of this chapter without the infinite effectiveness of Source energy, you will get a limited result.

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 85-86).  . Kindle Edition.



        Our human tendency is to go right to what the ego chooses first, and the creation formula is an example. We want the immediate fix; we want our lives to change without doing the work. But we cannot
        be dynamic if our energy is not dynamic, nor can you create dynamically. Let’s start with some facts about conscious creating. One of them is that often we can only see the next step, not the outcome.
         In this, the Universe protects us from ourselves. If I had been told twenty-five years ago that I would lecture on Consciousness, I would have spurned the idea. I didn’t know what Consciousness was.
         I was an actor, a screenwriter, a director, a jury consultant, and a performance coach for corporations. I remember being asked one day which career I preferred, and as I look back on my answer, I
         realize that it was funny and insufferable, but it was the best I could do. I told them that I couldn’t decide because I had been given all these gifts and I was supposed to use them. Over the years,
          I managed to uncover the truth: none of these roles entirely satisfied me. My fulfillment lay in a territory not yet fully opened in me, along with new talents that came up when I was ready to
          receive them. The Universe kept me out of my own way and brought me one step at a time to this work. You’ll be taken to your potential as well, even if you don’t know what it is. Another fact about
          conscious creating is that your mental powers are extraordinary, and you’re probably underutilizing them. Your mind can even control a machine. Princeton University’s Robert Jahn and developmental
          psychologist Brenda Dunne from the University of Chicago, after extensive research in their Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research Lab, proved this. Lynn McTaggart, author of The Field, describes
          an experiment they conducted: “Each participant sitting in front of the machine would undergo three tests of equal length. In the first, they would will the machine to produce more Is than Os
          (or “HI” s, as PEAR researchers put it). In the second, they would mentally direct the machine to produce more Os than Is (more “LO” s). In the third, they would attempt not to influence the machine
           in any way. This three-stage process was to guard against any bias in the equipment.” (McTaggart 2008,

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 86-87).  . Kindle Edition.



        Ms. McTaggart goes on to say, “This was as rigorous a scientific study as they come, and yet somehow their participants— all ordinary people, no psychic superstars among them— had been able to affect
         the random movement of machines simply by an act of will… they had just generated proof of ideas that were formerly the province of mystical experience or the most outlandish science fiction. They’d
          proved something revolutionary about human consciousness.” (McTaggart 2008, 115) PEAR has continued its research by asking people to influence automatic coin tossers and pinball-type machines. Again,
           the results are intriguing, and when ordinary individuals can demonstrate this kind of ability, imagine what might be done by one who is clear of egoic obstacles and who can focus his mind with
           laser-like precision. There might be no stopping you. You’re currently living in an energetic comfort zone, and what you want lies outside of it. You, at your most fundamental level, are a cellular
           being. You began life as one cell. A lot of information about growth and change came into that cell. The cell perceived this as stress and started vibrating, and in this vibration, it divided and
           lived, or it died. As you grow, you remain a cellular being, and you make choices that propel you away from pain, which the cells perceive as death, and toward pleasure, or at least toward things
           that don’t hurt as much, which is perceived as life. Your life has been created by this cellular phenomenon and the choices you’ve made out of it. Certain experiences taught you to put a hold on
           your energy to insure your survival, tamping it down to a level you perceived as safe, and by this I mean acceptable or even invisible as needed, thus insuring your survival.

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 87-88).  . Kindle Edition.


        When I was a little girl, my parents took me to my grandmother’s so they could go out. Although I loved my grandmother, I was bored over there, so I started racing around the house in protest. While
        the adults were talking, I sprinted in a loop from the hall to the kitchen, into the dining room, then into the living room and back around again. My mother called me on my behavior, but I didn’t stop
         until I broke an antique vase. My mother said what all mothers say— something to the effect of, “Look what you’ve done! You’ve been very bad. Now go to the bedroom, and I’m coming in there to punish
         you.” We’ve all had similar experiences where, in our exuberance, we go overboard and get into trouble. Because of this, our wiring gets mixed up: we subconsciously think that having high energy and
         expressing ourselves fully will get us into trouble because it did in the past. The events that trained you to your current energy level are likely long forgotten except for a few instances. What
         remains is the control you have over yourself. I bring this up because creating is a high-energy experience. You can’t use a 60-watt bulb to light Carnegie Hall. You must reclaim your energy and use
         it consciously. Even if you consider yourself a high-energy individual, there are times you won’t be. There will be certain situations in which you’ll hold back, where your behavior will be forced,
         where you won’t be comfortable, and where you will look back and criticize yourself for being less than you know you’re capable of being. You do this because you know that something within you needs
          to be adjusted. These negative feelings and behaviors indicate it. Instead, if you’re like most, we stop here in our disappointment with ourselves and go on to viciously criticize who we think we are
          until we are distracted by something else and run to that. This unawareness gets us nowhere, and it can happen when we’re right on the precipice of learning something important about ourselves. It’s as
           if we’re climbing a mountain, and just before we reach the top, we turn around and go back down the hill, only to do the same thing tomorrow.

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 88-89).  . Kindle Edition.


        Another important point about manifestation that cannot be overemphasized is that any good creator must be in the energy of his or her creation for it to manifest. To get the standing ovation at the end
        of your speech, you must be in the energy of the ovation before you begin the speech. This is more than imagination. You must assume the actual energy of what it feels like. Let’s say, by way of
        illustration, that you’re a golfer, and you want to drive a ball all the way to the green. You must hit that ball with the exact energy it takes to do it. What happens if you don’t exert that energy?
         The ball falls short. Similarly, if you want to make a sale, the energy of making that sale must be established before you walk through the door. You must be in the energy level for what you want;
         otherwise, there is no energetic potential for it, and without that energetic potential, the outcome will indeed fall short. If there are any actors reading this book, I now give you the same advice:
         if you want to create a believable character, you must be in the energy level in which the character exists. This is the number one thing that beginning and intermediate actors don’t know. Without
         the correct energy level for the scene, you are not believable. You can have the most beautiful, well-modulated voice, the best look, and you can read your lines well all day long, but if you are
         unbelievable— and believability starts with your energy level— nothing else about your performance counts. Great acting is about being real and getting your audience to believe. Are you carrying the
          heroine off to the bedroom, anticipating a first night of love with her? Are you sinking into the couch, drink in hand, with the intention to get good and drunk? Do the stage directions say to sweep
           the props off a table and send them clattering to express rage? Then you’d better be in the appropriate energy level before you even think about crafting your lines. The real craft to acting is in
           the nonverbal, which is purely what the energy is doing.

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (pp. 89-90).  . Kindle Edition.


        To manifest, you must enlist the cellular response and be in the energy level of potential. This means you must believe that what you want is already here. You must meld with the Mind of God that sees
        absolutely no difference between potential and substance. There is no difference, you see, because it’s all energy.

        Novak, Martha Burgess. The Life You Want (p. 90).  . Kindle Edition.

