With Internet marketing and social media becoming so popular, the more traditional methods of marketing seem to have fallen by the wayside. Is print advertising still a worthy investment?
Everywhere you look, there is talk of using the Internet as a marketing outlet and while social media and online advertising is certainly effective, it isn’t the only method of marketing out there. Print advertising is still alive and well, for a variety of reasons.
Every time something new comes up, people assume it will wipe out previous techniques. When television appeared, many thought radio would be gone forever. In some cases, it does work this way, but when it comes to marketing, the more people you can reach, the better. That means that print marketing can still be a worthy investment of marketing dollars.
Print Advertising Cons
While paper marketing still exists, that doesn’t mean there aren’t any downsides to this method. In fact, since social media and online advertising can be very cheap or even free, many business owners don’t even consider the more expensive print advertising anymore.
Magazines are particularly high cost to place ads in, but you can often get smaller ads for less. Newspapers can be good alternatives to magazines, as well. However, the actual ad cost doesn’t end with the price of placing it. First, you have to create the ad and that in itself can be pricey. You will need a photographer or graphic artist if you are going to be doing a quality visual ad or a copywriter for a print ad. Either way, you are looking at paying a lot of money out just to build the ad.
Another issue with print marketing is that many younger people will look online rather than in the Yellow Pages or a newspaper. It’s fairly uncommon to see anyone under the age of 30 reading the newspaper in print, since they can read it online. However, in some cases, your ad may be made available in both print and online editions, so it can still be a useful method of promotion.
Overall, if your audience is over 30-35, you should consider ads in newspapers. Magazines, because of their targeted marketing and appeal in print, are still an excellent way to reach any target market. While some are available online, most people still prefer to read them in paper versions.
Pros of Print Marketing
Despite the cost, there are some serious benefits to having your business appear in a magazine or newspaper. First, it still conveys a certain level of professionalism, something that isn’t always evident online where everyone can pay $10-25 to get their ad on a decent website. If you want to be respected, print is still one of the higher quality mediums, simply because of the price. This is one reason you might want to consider it . . . people will look at your business differently than they would online.
Print marketing tends to target a very specific audience, which means your ad will reach plenty of people who are more likely to be interested in your products and services. When it comes to magazines, you are placing your promotional materials in front of people interested enough in that specific topic to purchase a magazine about it.
How to Make It Work for Your Business
An effective print marketing campaign should involve plenty of planning ahead of time. You need to know exactly what your ad should achieve and then figure out the best way to reach that goal. This is what your graphic artist or copywriter will work with and it is what will make your ad function.
Keep in mind that most ads are not designed to sell, but to get people to remember your brand or to learn more about you. The next time they are in the store, you want your name to pop up when they are looking at the wide variety of products. It’s always a good idea to give a website address where people can find out more about your business, but even this will usually see a low number of people actually checking it out.
Repetition is key when it comes to getting people to remember you. That’s why you see the same exact ad on television over and over every time you watch a certain show. By making sure your ad gets in front of people on a regular basis, you can rest assured that they will remember your brand when they need something you offer. In general, people need to see an ad 7 times before they will actually act on what they are seeing.
Print advertising may not be as popular with some businesses these days, but it is still a very useful method of promotion. Your best option is to use a combination of both online and print marketing, to reach as many people as possible in as many ways as you can.


1.Print ads have a larger impact on the consumer.

Print ads are likely to stick with a reader. There was once a study at Penn State that tested a person’s memory of online and print ads. At the end of the test, it had become apparent that print ads stuck with the consumer easier and they were able to recollect those ads much better.

2.Print advertising can target certain audiences more.

3. An additional form of advertising is incredibly beneficial.

   A lot of companies have completely ditched the use of any marketing that isn’t online. They view online marketing as cheaper, easier, and more likely to get results. However, even if your opinion sways in the favor of either print advertising or online advertising, using both is much more effective. Print advertising is definitely not dead and viewing it in that way is likely to cause your business to miss out on some important customers.

4. There are actually people that don’t use the internet. (Seniors with money)

Yeah I know it’s kind of crazy to think about it nowadays, but it is very true. There are people that couldn’t care less about using the internet and those people should not be forgotten. If these
 people are completely disregarded just for the sake that online advertising is easier, then business could miss out on many potential customers.

 5. It’s tangible, thus more trustable.

 The internet is flooded with fake advertisements that can lead you to getting a virus or having some dirty pop-ups cover your screen. The latter of which is an incredibly awkward thing, especially if your significant other walks into the room at just the right time and you are found with the pages opened up all over the place. Print advertising can’t even do any of this, thus people don’t view them as scams like they do a lot of internet ads. On top of this, the internet is still viewed in a cautious light and print ads have been around forever and people have no reason to mistrust them.

  Print will work synergistically with your online and other advertising methods to produce valuable results for your company. Remember advertising is all about experimentation; and for an experiment to yield good results you need to use many variables; discover for yourself how print advertising can benefit you.


  Print advertising vs. digital advertising

  A 2015 study by the United States Postal Service compared the reactions of subjects when presented with either a digital or physical advertisement. They used various neuromarketing techniques (such as eye tracking and biometric measurements) to gauge subjects’ reactions. The results of the study showed that print advertising was leaving more of a positive and lasting impression on the subjects:

  Subjects spent longer reviewing physical media than digital
  Printed media evoked higher emotional reactions
  Physical media led to subjects having a great desire for the product
  Subjects attached high subconscious values to products shown in the printed advertisements
  A week later, subjects were able to recall and remember printed media more effectively than the digital counterparts

  Create memorable campaign messages
  Many companies run annual marketing campaigns that involve some sort of physical item alongside the printed marketing material. For example, they might send out a branded mug, soft toy or confectionary item with a printed flyer/card. Combining print and promotional goods in this way makes the receiver feel incredibly “special” when the package drops through their mailbox. Every time they go to use the branded item, or look at it on their desk, they’ll be reminded of your brand.

  People automatically look at things that are placed in their hands
  Whether you post a leaflet through someone’s letter box, or hand them one in the street, they will automatically look at what’s on the paper as soon as it touches their hands. With digital advertising, it’s all too easy to ignore the ads down the side of your screen, but when you’re actually touching something you can’t ignore it.

Printed advertising produces a better person-to-brand connection
The results of a poll of 1,200 adults made it clear that people nurture a yearning for the tactile over the digital in some cases. For example, when asked which items they would miss the most if they were moved to digital only, participants not only listed the obvious choices of books, magazines and newspapers, but also marketing materials such as business cards and catalogues.

Maximise sensory appeal
Marketers know they must appeal to all of a consumer’s senses to encourage a sale. It’s very hard to do this with digital advertising; you’re mainly limited to sight and occasionally sound if you have a video advert. However, with printed media, you have the smell of the freshly printed paper, the feel of it in your hand, the vibrant colours and the sound of the paper moving. Using quality cardstock or even scented paper could be what it takes to turn a casual browser into a first-time customer.

3. Print means focus

How many times have you caught yourself unfocused by so much technology? You have six tabs open on your digital tablet as you browse the Internet, as the TV is on in the background, and you have a conversation via text or with someone beside you.

The online world and social media is fast-paced; we live our lives in a busy swirl, in a hive of activity. But we all need to slow down sometimes, and printed media is one way that we do this.

A printed leaflet posted through the letterbox can get the focus it deserves from the right people.

4. Printed material still has a clear message, purpose, and place

We live in technologically rich times where we are all connected with the digital world in some way or other. With the clarity of purpose—in other words, you know who and why you are aiming your printed material at—anything from a poster to a leaflet can hit the right spot, time and time again. In fact, in our technically rich world, having something to look at that is not on a screen can be a pleasant change in one's day.

Print is Tangible. Publications, brochures, posters and other types of printed materials are physical items. These items can stay in offices or homes for months or even years after they are received.
Print is Credible. Like the feeling you get when you see The New York Times or your favorite magazine on the rack, there is something to be said about the feeling of legitimacy that comes from print. You are able to put the printed piece down and comeback at any time to resume your reading. And print requires “real estate”. As marketers, we like this! A  printed piece placed on the corner of a desk will be there day after day until it is picked back up to be viewed.
Print Establishes Your Brand. Printed publications and other branded materials is an excellent way to establish your brand. It allows you to bring the aesthetic qualities of font, colors, images and texture that helps to establish brand recognition.
Print Helps You Reach Your Target Market.  The design and placement of your company ads in publications, newspapers and magazines can help you reach your target audience, whether it be a niche market or the general public. By leveraging the data of demographics, you are able to strategically place your brand in the right place at the right time, in front of the right audience.
Print is More Engaging. Websites are often skimmed in as little as 15 seconds per visit. When a customer or prospect reads a printed material, they are more engaged for a longer period of time. On average, a consumer spend 43 minutes reading a magazine.
Less Print, Is More For You. With more companies taking their marketing efforts online, the old has become new again as print becomes the new trend. But this isn’t your parents’ world of print communications! Marketers have more information and data to make calculated decisions about content, consumption, consumers, and collateral types. Customers’ and prospects’ email inboxes are overflowing with unsolicited ads and non-worthy news, most of which is largely ignored. With this in mind, designing and sharing a great printed marketing piece should be high on your list of strategic marketing initiatives.


Should magazine be part of your marketing mix? We think so. Here are 10 good reasons that have been proven true by independent market research.

Magazines and magazine ads capture focused attention: The focused process of magazine reading leads to less media multi-tasking, ensuring singleminded attention to advertising.
Magazine advertising is targeted: Magazines engage readers in very personal ways. There’s a magazine for every passion and a passion for every magazine. Use magazines to reach your target audience in a meaningful way — a way in which Specialty TV just can’t compare. Plus magazine readers reach the affluent, those with disposable income to buy advertised brands.
Magazine advertising is relevant and welcomed: Consumers value magazine advertising, reading it almost as much as the editorial itself. The ads are accepted as an essential part of the magazine mix.
Magazines are credible: Consumers trust magazines so much that they are the leading sources of information that readers recommend by word-of-mouth to others.
Magazines offer a lasting message: Ads keep working 24/7. They provide a lasting, durable message with time to study a brand’s benefits. Consumers clip and save magazine ads for future reference.
Magazines deliver brand relevant imagery: Magazine editorial imbues ads with brand relevant imagery, associations and a frame of reference that delivers greater reader receptivity to brand ads.
Magazine advertising drives web searches and visits: Magazines are where consumers go for ideas and inspiration. That’s why magazine ads are leading influencers, driving readers to advertiser websites and to start a search.
Magazines drive the purchase funnel: Magazines are effective across all stages of the purchase funnel, especially brand favourability and purchase consideration, the most sought after metrics that are hardest to sway.
Magazine advertising enhances ROI: Allocating more ad dollars to magazines in the media mix improves marketing and advertising ROI.
Magazines sell: Study after study prove that magazines help drive sales objectives, as a stand alone medium or in combination with others. Over half of readers act on exposure to magazine ads.