The Burgess Process

I. Assessment and Process

With her trademark evaluation, Martha Burgess Novak assesses the individual's learning and communication process and provides companies with graphs of the results.
 We interpret the charts for you, teach you how to interpret them for future use, and present the information to the company according to your needs – suggesting the
  best team and/or job restructuring to management, running team comparisons, assessing individual performance, predicting conflicts, and presenting solutions. Our Learning
  and Communication Sequence (LCS) Assessments are an invaluable tool when hiring, merging, acquiring or downsizing.

II.Interview and Discovery

Martha Burgess Novak,Inc. conducts extensive research before we begin.  We interveiw, privately and confidentially, anyone the company designates, including but not limited
to its executive officers.  We discover strenghts and challenges, and devise efficient strategies to address each.

III. PPI Training and Systematic Access

Peak Performance Improvement (PPI) Training is a methodic approach, tailor-made to your organization and its needs. Employee by employee, we show your company how to work at
higher levels of performance. Systematic Access is the hands on coaching process for the executives, teams and individuals within your organization. We take the quickest route
to help break old patterns that no longer serve your organization and its goals, and train people to adopt more powerful behaviors. You’ll see performance improve markedly, and immediately.


IV. Planning and Evaluation

After implementation of The Burgess Process, we sit down with you and determine how far you’ve come and where you want to go next. At this time, we may conduct more interviews,
survey your new image, or design an itinerary that will guide you further on your journey, helping you choose and arrive at the next, more ambitious destination.



The Burgess Advantage

What is the difference between a good coach and a great one?  Being a great coach requires out-of-the-box thinking, exceptional insight and the ability to assess with neutrality.
 A great coach is an expert communicator who links you to your potential.
It’s easy to detect bad coaches: Their methods don’t lead to the power of your potential. Instead, they ask you to imitate their potential.

Martha Burgess Novak is an acknowledged innovator in training, coaching and development. She begins by acknowledging that business behavior is human behavior – and that the highest goals
 for both are the same: integrity, commitment, loyalty, truth, respect and honor.

How does having a great coach benefit you? Growth is an adventure. By helping you identify and overcome personal obstacles, a great coach does more than teach you to imitate behaviors
that work for most people. A great coach facilitates your evolution, ensuring that the training is effective and enduring.



The Burgess Process for Business

The Burgess Process defines a system of peak performance which allows people to generate high energy on command without anxiety. Burgess' method of achieving peak performance energy far
exceeds generic business-seminar-style peak performance training. It renders visibility, bestows the dynamic of all great leadership, and opens the door to consistantly high levels of accomplishment
 through peak perfromance behaviors.

The Burgess Process delievers powerful, life-changing perpectives on peak performance, communication, teamwork, sales, the power of perception, conflict management and resolution, and the
inherent power of non-verbal language. As a result, employees learn to achieve consistantly high levels of performance on command.

Performance Training
Martha Burgess Novak,Inc. is a full-service firm dedicated to improving the executive, management, employee, and customer experience. We teach companies, teams and individuals how to stand out
 and deliver a high caliber performance in today's competitive marketplace.

Most training organizations try to inspire teams. But company-wide growth cannot happen if the training does not inspre the individuals to bring all of his or her talents to the table.  A company's
progress begins with person-to-person improvement.

Most of your business’ resources are quantitative. That’s how you measure profit. However, your business’ most valuable resources, people, are qualitative. How can you accurately measure their
morale, their enthusiasm for their work, their commitment to quality? That’s why businesses struggle to make worthwhile investments in their most important assets – their employees.

Martha Burgess inspires superior results. She reaches beyond conventional business coaching techniques to reveal hidden blocks to higher achievement. She brings  goals into focus and shows
 you the  way to achieve them. She assesses whole-company learning and communication capabilities, identifies and shows you how to eliminate obstacles, and finally, creates an innovative, structured, customized approach that propels every individual forward.